　中华民族的传统文化博大精深，源远流长。早在2000多年前，就产生了以孔孟为代表的儒家学说和以老庄为代表的道家学说，以及其他许多也在中国思想史上有地位的学说流派，这就是有名的“诸子百家”。从孔夫子到孙中山，中华民族传统文化有它的许多珍贵品质，许多人民性和民主性的好东西。比如，强调仁爱，强调群体，强调和而不同，强调天下为公。特别是“天下兴亡，匹夫有责”的爱国情找，“民为邦本”，“民贵君轻”的民本思想，“己所不欲勿施于人”的待人之道，吃苦耐劳，勤俭持家，尊师重教的传统美德，世代相传。所有这些，对家庭，国家和社会起到了巨大的维系与调节作用。

Chinese culture is very long and wide. Rujiaxueshuo, Daojiaxueshuo and Other famous theories was built 2000 years ago which was called "Zhuzibaijia". Chinese culture has a lot of preserve massive such people and theory from Kong fuzi to Sun Zhongshan. Such as mercy, population and many people.

参考译文：

The traditional Chinese culture, both extensive and profound, starts far back and runs a long , long course. More than 2,000 years ago, there emerged in China Confucianism represented by Confucius and Mencius, Taoism represented by Lao Zi and Zhuang Zi, and many other theories and doctrines that figured prominently in the history of Chinese thought, all being covered by the famous term "the masters' hundred schools". The traditional Chinese culture presents many precious ideas and qualities, which are essentially populist and democratic. For example, they lay stress on the importance of kindness and love in human relations, on the interest of the community, on seeking as embodied in the saying "Everybody is responsible for the rise or fall of the country", the populist ideas that "people are the foundation of the country" and that "people are the more important than the monarch", the code of conduct of "Treat other as you want to be treated". And the traditional virtues taught from generation to generation: endurance and hardworking diligence and frugality in household management, and respecting teachers and valuing education . All of which have played a great role in binding and regulating the family, the country and the society.

extensive adj. large in size or amount
profound adj. having or showing great knowledge or understanding; very strongly felt; requiring deep thought or wisdom
course n. the path or direction that something or someone moves along; a series of classes about a particular subject in a school; the normal or regular way that something happens over time; a way of behaving or proceeding that you choose; used to describe what happens during a period of time or when something is being done; v. to move or flow quickly
emerge v. to become known or apparent; o rise or appear from a hidden or unknown place or condition; to become known or regarded as something
Confucianism n. a Chinese way of thought which teaches that you should be loyal to your family, friends, and rulers and treat others as you would like to be treated. Confucianism was developed from the ideas of Confucius.
represent v. to be a sign or symbol of (someone or something); to describe (someone or something) in a particular way
doctrine n. a set of ideas or beliefs that are taught or believed to be true
prominent adj. important and well-known; easily noticed or seen
figure v. to expect or think (something)
ceremony n. a formal act or event that is a part of a social or religious occasion; very polite or formal behavior
essential adj. extremely important and necessary; very basic; n. something that is basic or necessary
democratic adj. based on a form of government in which the people choose leaders by voting; relating to the idea that all people should be treated equally
populist adj. of or relating to a political party that claims to represent ordinary people
stress v. to give special attention to (something); to pronounce (a syllable or word) in a louder or more forceful way than other syllables or words; n. greater loudness or force given to a syllable of a word in speech or to a beat in music
harmony n. a pleasing combination or arrangement of different things
uniformity n. the quality or state of being the same
patriotism n. love that people feel for their country
embody v. to represent (something) in a clear and obvious way; to include (something) as a part or feature
foundation n. a usually stone or concrete structure that supports a building from underneath; an organization that is created and supported with money that people give in order to do something that helps society
monarch n. a person (such as a king or queen) who rules a kingdom or empire
conduct v. to plan and do (something, such as an activity); to direct the performance of (musicians or singers); to guide or lead (someone) through or around a place; n. the way that a person behaves in a particular place or situation
treat v. to deal with or think about (something) especially in a particular way; to think of and act toward (someone or something) in a specified way; to pay for someone's food, drink, or entertainment; to give medical care to (a person or animal); n. an occurrence in which you pay for someone's food, drink, or entertainment; something pleasant or amusing that is unusual or unexpected
virtue n. morally good behavior or character; a good and moral quality; the good result that comes from something
endurance n. the ability to do something difficult for a long time
diligence n. careful hard work
figure adj. careful about spending money or using things when you do not need to
value v. to make a judgment about the amount of money that something is worth; to think that (someone or something) is important or useful
bind v. to tie or wrap (something) with rope, string, etc.; to tie the hands or feet of a person to prevent escape or movement
regulate v. to set or adjust the amount, degree, or rate of (something); to bring (something) under the control of authority



中国传统文化博大精深，源远流长。两千多年前，在中国出现了以孔孟为代表的儒家思想，以老子和庄子为代表的道教思想，以及在中国思想史上占重要地位的许多其他理论和学说，所有这些都被著名的“大师百所学校”。中国传统文化提出了许多宝贵的思想和品质，这些思想和品质实质上是民粹主义和民主的。例如，他们强调善意和关爱在人际关系中的重要性，社会的利益，寻求体现在“人人为国家的兴衰所负责”的民粹主义思想上，人民是国家的基础”，“人民比君主更重要”，这是“对待他人时要与他人相处”的行为准则。传统的美德世代相传：在家庭管理中的耐力，勤奋的勤奋和节俭，以及尊重老师和重视教育。所有这些在约束和调节家庭，国家和社会方面都发挥了重要作用。

广泛的大或大
深刻的具有或显示出丰富的知识或理解；非常强烈的感觉；需要深刻的思想或智慧
当然某物或某人移动的路径或方向；关于学校中特定主题的一系列课程；随着时间的流逝发生的正常或常规方式；您选择的行为或进行方式；用于描述一段时间或完成某件事时发生的情况； v。快速移动或流动
露面v。变得众所周知或明显； o从隐藏或未知的地方或状况中出现或出现；变得知名或被视为某物
儒学一种中国式的思维方式，教导您应该忠于家人，朋友和统治者，并像对待他人一样对待他人。儒家思想是从孔子思想发展而来的。
代表v。是（某人或某物）的标志或符号；以特定方式描述（某人或某物）
学说一组被认为或被认为是真实的想法或信念
杰出的重要而众所周知；容易注意到或看到
图v。期望或思考（某物）
典礼作为社会或宗教场合的一部分的正式行为或事件；非常礼貌或正式的行为
基本调整极其重要和必要的；很基本。基本或必要的东西
民主调整以人民投票选举领导人的政府形式为基础；关于所有人应受到平等对待的想法
民粹主义者声称代表普通百姓的政党的或与之有关的
诉诸于某事以比其他音节或单词更大声或更有力的方式发音（一个音节或单词）； 。给语音中的单词音节或音乐中的节拍赋予更大的响度或力度
和谐不同事物的令人愉快的组合或安排
均匀性相同的质量或状态
爱国主义爱人们对祖国的感觉
体现诉诸以清晰明了的方式代表（某事）；包括（某物）作为零件或特征
基金会通常是石头或混凝土结构，从下面支撑建筑物；一个由人们创造并获得金钱支持的组织，以便做一些有助于社会的事情
君主统治王国或帝国的人（例如国王或王后）
进行计划和做某事（某事，例如一项活动）；指导（音乐家或歌手）的表演；引导或带领（某人）穿过或围绕某个地方； 。一个人在特定位置或情况下的行为方式
对待v。处理，尤指以某种方式处理或思考（某事）；以特定的方式思考（某人或某物）并对其采取行动；支付某人的食物，饮料或娱乐费用；给（人或动物）医疗； 。您为某人的食物，饮料或娱乐活动付费的事件；不寻常或意外的令人愉快或有趣的事情
美德道德上良好的行为或品格；良好的道德品质；来自某事的好结果
耐力长时间做困难的事情的能力
勤奋的认真努力
图调整在不需要时花钱或使用东西时要小心
价值诉求，判断某物的价值；认为（某人或某物）重要或有用
v。用绳子，绳子等绑扎或包裹（某物）；系住人的手或脚以防止逃脱或移动
规管v。设定或调整（某物）的数量，程度或比率；使（某物）受到
